docs: document grouped results layout for ES|QL STATS BY in Discover (#5733) (#6086)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/discover/try-esql.md

Only one grouping field is active at a time.

### Pattern and sparkline rendering

When the grouping field uses [`CATEGORIZE`](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/esql/functions-operators/grouping-functions/categorize.md), each row title shows the detected pattern with token highlighting, so you can scan repeated message structures at a glance.

When the query also computes a [`SPARKLINE`](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/esql/functions-operators/aggregation-functions/sparkline.md) over time, the resulting array is rendered as an inline sparkline next to the row aggregates. For example, the following query categorizes log messages and renders a per-pattern sparkline:

```esql
FROM kibana_sample_data_logs
| WHERE @timestamp <= ?_tend AND @timestamp > ?_tstart
| SAMPLE 0.001
| STATS Count = COUNT(*) / 0.001,
        Sparkline = SPARKLINE(COUNT(*), @timestamp, 40, ?_tstart, ?_tend)
    BY Pattern = CATEGORIZE(message)
| SORT Count DESC
```

::::{tip}
Pattern detection on text fields is also available outside {{esql}} from the **Patterns** tab in Discover's classic mode. See [](/explore-analyze/discover/run-pattern-analysis-discover.md).
::::

### Row actions

> Select the {icon}`boxesVertical` actions button on any group row to:

Author: ```suggestion
Select the {icon}`boxes_vertical` actions button on any group row to:
```
